3.8 release blog post (#273)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/announcing-sourcegraph-3.8.md

</div>

**Deploy or upgrade:** [Local](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/#quickstart-guide) | [AWS](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-aws) | [DigitalOcean](https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/sourcegraph?action=deploy&refcode=48dfb3ccb51c) | [Kubernetes cluster](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph)

## Introducing Automation: first steps toward large scale code code modification

<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/355392896?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/355392896" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>

We have started working to add new [Automation](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/automation) workflows to Sourcegraph. Soon, you will be able to automate large-scale code changes to remove legacy code, fix critical security issues, and pay down tech debt across all of your repositories.

> See [the Automation screencasts](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/automation#see-it-in-action) in action and let us know if you are interested in learning more, or if Automation would benefit you and your company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Watch to Automation screencasts](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/automation#see-it-in-action) to see it in action. We're opening it up to organizations upon request right now in the private beta period, so reach out to us using the form on that page if you'd like to start using it.
```

## Beta release of fast and precise LSIF-based code intelligence

> ![LSIF code intelligence comparison](images/3.8-lsif.png "LSIF code intelligence comparison")

Reviewer 2: currently broken link

Our solution to fast and precise code intelligence is with LSIF. We first wrote about LSIF (Language Server Index Format) in [code intelligence using LSIF](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/code-intelligence-with-lsif). This blogpost gives an overview of what LSIF is, and why we are working to support it.

In Sourcegraph 3.8, LSIF-backed code intelligence is available for beta testing by early adopters. The currently supported languages (ones with LSIF indexers) are [TypeScript](https://github.com/microsoft/lsif-node), [Go](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go), [Python](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-py), and [C/C++](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-cpp). Check out the documentation for [details on how to try it out on your code](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/user/code_intelligence/lsif).

## Search result tabs for improved result type discoverability

<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">

>     <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

Reviewer 2: missing video

  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>

Many users were not aware of the different search result types that are supported by Sourcegraph, such as diff or symbol results. We have added tabs to the search results page to surface the different result types and make it quick and easy to navigate between them.

## Out of the box monitoring of your Sourcegraph instance

<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">

>     <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

Reviewer 2: missing video

![search performance benchmarks](images/3.8-benchmarks.png "search performance benchmarks")

We now have greater confidence rolling out search performance improvements. For example, in just the past two Sourcegraph releases we’ve used this same methodology to validate and roll out changes that have resulted in:

- _v3.6.2 had a 20-99% improvement in text search performance_ ([full load test comparison](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1X-9NcQ76AAVnnVNA0shAiiV6reehmLjeOTsqGv82-5c/edit#gid=1810392049)).

- _v3.7.2 had a 20x improvement to symbol search performance on large instances_ ([full load test comparison](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1oPzePjD8YLrnppLm3nk46h48_Cxipz4_QqRMBYaIOYQ/edit#gid=724417824)).

We’ve also been hard at work automating even more of our internal testing and QA process that we perform as part of each release. If you haven’t upgraded recently and seen these major improvements, there is no better time than now!

## Quickly toggle the browser extension on/off

<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">

>     <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

Reviewer 2: missing video

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.8: Introducing campaign management with Automation and LSIF-based code intelligence"
author: Christina Forney
publishDate: 2019-09-01T10:00-07:00
tags: [
  blog
]
slug: sourcegraph-3.8
heroImage: https://about.sourcegraph.com/sourcegraph-mark.png
published: true
---

> Sourcegraph is the standard developer platform for code search and navigation at many of the largest and most exacting technology companies. With Sourcegraph, every company has access to the same kind of tools that Google and Facebook developers use every day.

Reviewer 2: Is this a typo or did you actually mean exacting?

```suggestion
Sourcegraph is the standard developer platform for code search and navigation at many of the largest and most exciting technology companies. With Sourcegraph, every company has access to the same kind of tools that Google and Facebook developers use every day.
```

Author: I actually don't know what was originally intended here - @ryan-blunden  do you remember?

Reviewer 2: I am going to withdraw my suggested change and assume "exacting" was the intended meaning, but I do think "exacting" is a bit of an unusual word. What about "advanced"?

Author: +1 will change!

> We're excited to announce Sourcegraph 3.8. This release contains lots of behind the scenes work, both foundational and forward looking. Sourcegraph 3.8 introduces faster and more precise [LSIF](https://github.com/Microsoft/language-server-protocol/blob/master/indexFormat/specification.md)-based code intelligence, and campaign monitoring, the first step towards [code change Automation](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/automation). In addition to these new concepts, 3.8 introduces search result tabs for better search result discoverability, and the first step towards better monitoring for admins with built-in monitoring tools deployed with every instance.

Reviewer 2: First sentence seems unnecessary given the context of the title but also feels like it stutters the third sentence.

```suggestion
This release contains lots of behind the scenes work, both foundational and forward looking. Sourcegraph 3.8 introduces faster and more precise [LSIF](https://github.com/Microsoft/language-server-protocol/blob/master/indexFormat/specification.md)-based code intelligence, and campaign monitoring, the first step towards [code change Automation](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/automation). In addition to these new concepts, 3.8 introduces search result tabs for better search result discoverability, and the first step towards better monitoring for admins with built-in monitoring tools deployed with every instance.
```

The 3rd and 4th sentences feel like they should be a list (as it stands they are complex compound sentences), but we already kind of have a list below, so I am wondering if there is a way to simplify this.

> We're excited to announce Sourcegraph 3.8. This release contains lots of behind the scenes work, both foundational and forward looking. Sourcegraph 3.8 introduces faster and more precise [LSIF](https://github.com/Microsoft/language-server-protocol/blob/master/indexFormat/specification.md)-based code intelligence, and campaign monitoring, the first step towards [code change Automation](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/automation). In addition to these new concepts, 3.8 introduces search result tabs for better search result discoverability, and the first step towards better monitoring for admins with built-in monitoring tools deployed with every instance.

Reviewer 3: This gave me the impression that it's a feature I can now use, as in, I upgrade and I've got it. Maybe that's just me, but I think wording here needs to be careful.

Reviewer 2: @ryan-blunden is the "it" in your comment "automation"? Hard to tell because the comment in on the full line (which is the whole paragraph).

Author: Assuming this is about automation, by removing the bulk of the paragraph to not redundantly talk about the release items should solve this.

> We're excited to announce Sourcegraph 3.8. This release contains lots of behind the scenes work, both foundational and forward looking. Sourcegraph 3.8 introduces faster and more precise [LSIF](https://github.com/Microsoft/language-server-protocol/blob/master/indexFormat/specification.md)-based code intelligence, and campaign monitoring, the first step towards [code change Automation](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/automation). In addition to these new concepts, 3.8 introduces search result tabs for better search result discoverability, and the first step towards better monitoring for admins with built-in monitoring tools deployed with every instance.

Reviewer 3: This paragraph seems to largely duplicate the itemized list below.

If defining a theme or context for the release was important, then this paragraph would be a great vehicle for that.

Author: The first sentence is the most important for what I'm trying to convey.  Would shortening it the first two sentences help? 

> We're excited to announce Sourcegraph 3.8. This release contains lots of behind the scenes work, both foundational and forward-looking.

<div style="padding-left: 2rem">

[**🤖 Introducing Automation: first stages of campaign management**](#introducing-automation-first-stages-of-campaign-management)<br />

> TO DO???

Author: @sqs - The different pieces of this section are waiting on feedback from you.

[**🧠 Beta release of fast and precise LSIF-based code intelligence**](#beta-release-of-fast-and-precise-lsif-based-code-intelligence)<br />
Faster, more precise code intelligence for TypeScript, Go, Python, and C/C++

[**🔎 Search result tabs for improved resuslt type discoverability**](#search-result-tabs-for-improved-resuslt-type-discoverability)<br />

[**📊 Out of the box monitoring of your Sourcegraph instance**](#out-of-the-box-monitoring-of-your-sourcegraph-instance)<br />

[**📉 Behind the scenes: Even more benchmarking, automated testing, and QA**](#behind-the-scenes-even-more-benchmarking-automated-testing-and-qa)<br />

[**🔦 Quickly toggle the browser extension on/off**](#quickly-toggle-the-browser-extension-onoff)<br />

[**📝 Changelog**](#changelog)<br />

> Every detail that changed in this release

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every detail that changed in this release.
```

Author: Historically in release notes these sentences haven't had periods. Happy to change that for all the sub-sentences in the list if you think it would be better!

Author: Updating.

[**🎖️ Thank you**](#thank-you)<br />
Sourcegraph couldn't be what it is without the community.

</div>

**Deploy or upgrade:** [Local](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/#quickstart-guide) | [AWS](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-aws) | [DigitalOcean](https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/sourcegraph?action=deploy&refcode=48dfb3ccb51c) | [Kubernetes cluster](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph)

## Introducing Automation: first stages of campaign management

TO DO: Include one of the demo videos here?

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

> [Large scale code change Automation](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/automation) is coming soon to Sourcegraph. With this functionality, you will be able to automate large-scale code changes to remove legacy code, fix critical security issues, and pay down tech debt. We have started our implementation with campaign management - the ability to track sets of changes (e.g. pull requests) to ensure they are rolled out throughout your organization.

Reviewer 2: Since we aren't announcing anything specifically in this release, I think we should just focus on the vision (not the intermediate milestones).

```suggestion
We have started working to add new [Automation](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/automation) workflows to Sourcegraph. Soon, you will be able to automate large-scale code changes to remove legacy code, fix critical security issues, and pay down tech debt across all of your repositories.
```

[See our prototype of Automation in action](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/automation#see-it-in-action) and let us know if you are interested in learning more, or if Automation would benefit you and your company.

## Beta release of fast and precise LSIF-based code intelligence

TO DO: VIDEO?

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

> Each Sourcegraph instance ships with basic code intelligence that provides jump to definition and find references for every language. Basic code intelligence works well for many of our customers, but some customers have been asking for more precise code intelligence. We previously used language servers to provide precise code intelligence, but they were complex to configure, required separate deployment, and were slow to initialize.

Reviewer 2: This makes it sound like we no longer support language servers.

```suggestion
Each Sourcegraph instance ships with basic code intelligence that provides jump to definition and find references for every language. Basic code intelligence works well for many of our customers, but some customers have been asking for more precise code intelligence. Language servers provide precise code intelligence, but they are complex to configure, require separate deployment, and are slow to initialize, so we have added support for LSIF based code intelligence.
```

(then delete the first sentence of the next paragraph)

Our solution to fast and precise code intelligence is with LSIF. We first wrote about LSIF (Language Server Index Format) in [code intelligence using LSIF](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/code-intelligence-with-lsif). This blogpost gives an overview of what LSIF is, and why we are working to support it.

> In Sourcegraph 3.8, LSIF-backed code intelligence is available for beta testing by early adopters. The currently supported languages (ones with LSIF indexers) are [TypeScript](https://github.com/microsoft/lsif-node), [Go](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go), [Python](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-py), and [C/C++](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-cpp). Check out the documentation for [details on how to try it out on your code](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/user/code_intelligence/lsif).

Reviewer 4: We decided to use the term "beta" in the last code intel sync.

## Search result tabs for improved resuslt type discoverability

TO DO: VIDEO

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

Many users were not aware of the different search result types that are supported by Sourcegraph, such as diff or symbol results. We have added tabs to the search results page to surface the different result types and make it quick and easy to navigate between them.

## Out of the box monitoring of your Sourcegraph instance

> 

Reviewer 3: I think a screenshot or two would suffice unless we demonstrate how to get this working (not sure what's involved here).

@uwedeportivo: Are there docs we can link to for configuration etc.

Reviewer 5: nope

Author: Docs and better dashboards are coming with the next release. This is just adding an out of the box access to the monitoring tools.

TO DO: VIDEO

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

Sourcegraph 3.8 introduces out of the box access to monitoring tools for admins to keep tabs on the health of your Sourcegraph instance. Sourcegraph now ships with Grafana and Prometheus built-in, and some basic dashboards for better debugging of your instance. We will continue to work on improving the dashboards and metrics surfaced in the next release, with the goal of providing an accurate view into the health of your instance.

## Behind the scenes: Even more benchmarking, automated testing, and QA

> Over the last few releases we have worked on improving Sourcegraph’s performance at scale for customers with 30k+ repositories, and we continue to do so. With each major improvement we make to search, we’re now running even more extensive end-to-end load tests to verify our improvements. Previously, we would rely primarily on unit-level benchmarks. These load tests enable us to quickly gather and analyze approximately one million search API requests, and automatically generate reports we can interpret and learn from:

Reviewer 2: I think it flows better if we don't mention on the old state.

```suggestion
Over the last few releases we have worked on improving Sourcegraph’s performance at scale for customers with 30k+ repositories, and we continue to do so. With each major improvement we make to search, we’re now running even more extensive end-to-end load tests to verify our improvements. These load tests enable us to quickly gather and analyze approximately one million search API requests, and automatically generate reports we can interpret and learn from:
```

- _v3.6.2 had a 20-99% improvement in text search performance_ ([full load test comparison](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1X-9NcQ76AAVnnVNA0shAiiV6reehmLjeOTsqGv82-5c/edit#gid=1810392049)).

- _v3.7.2 had a 20x improvement to symbol search performance on large instances_ ([full load test comparison](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1oPzePjD8YLrnppLm3nk46h48_Cxipz4_QqRMBYaIOYQ/edit#gid=724417824)).

We’ve also been hard at work automating even more of our internal testing and QA process that we perform as part of each release. If you haven’t upgraded recently and seen these major improvements, there is no better time than now!

## Quickly toggle the browser extension on/off

TO DO: VIDEO

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

> You can now toggle the browser extension on and off without having to fully disable the extension. This was added to make testing and personal workflows easier for users to quickly opt in and out of the extension capabilities.

Reviewer 3: > testing and personal workflows easier for users to quickly opt in and out of

I don't understand what this means. Is there a concrete example?

Author: Here are the notes I was considering when writing this section. I tried my best to keep a positive spin on it:

> Why did we do this?
> - Bad performance on large PRs
> - “Too noisy” complaints - users not wanting to be interrupted by hovers
> - Debugging issues with their sourcegraph instance
> - For us - easier for our own debugging of issues, for testing integrations, etc.
> - User requests in productboard: https://sourcegraph.productboard.com/feature-board/823416-feature-prioritization/features/2739867/insights

Reviewer 2: I think this language is fine as-is. We don't need to convince people this is a useful feature because it isn't something we necessarily want people to actively use. If people know that it will be useful for them, then they will be thankful. If not, that is fine.

Author: Reworded. Is the new version better?
